[theme music playing]
Someone's got a
special day coming up.
Oh?
Mm, hmm.
And I know who.
Give me a break, Crystal.
Roseanne, is it your birthday?
Saturday.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Happy birthday, Roseanne.
How old are you going to be?
Well, uh--
37.
Do you have anything
special planned?
I don't know.
Crystal?
Listen, as my present, I'm
going to give you Saturday off.
No.
I insist.
Here you go.
Make a wish.
Happy birthday, Roseanne.
Happy birthday.
OK, I wish that
even though you're
giving me Saturday off that I
would still get paid for it.
Of course, you will.
What did you wish, Roseanne?
Don't tell her, Roseanne.
It's bad luck.
It's bad luck not to tell.
Maybe you won't get
paid for that day off.
[laughs]
Well, I wished for time.
Time for what?
I used to do all this writing,
you know, when I was younger.
Roseanne is a terrific writer.
Oh, what do you
write, Roxanne?
Nothing now, but
I used to, you know,
write a lot when I
was, you know, younger.
Like what?
Like these poems and
stories and junk like that.
Whatever my brain churned out.
You know, my nephew
Roger does calligraphy.
So how come you
stopped writing?
You know, I don't know.
I was-- I was writing
this one day, you know,
and a grenade went
off in my hand.
Oh, I hate when that happens.
How come you did stop?
Well, because, you know,
work and Dan and the kids.
I don't have any time.
What if you did a little
writing before you go to sleep?
No, I like to do something
else before I go to sleep.
Whoo, whoo, whoo.
Surely, not every
night, Roxanne.
Oh, yeah, that's what
us poor people do we.
We don't have VCRs.
[music playing]
OK, who are these guys?
Splitting Headaches.
And what's the
name of the song?
Pounding.
So basically we're
listening to Pounding
by the Splitting Headaches.
Oh, oh, my god, here it is.
Dan!
Hey, Dan, come here.
Look what I found.
Coming, mother.
Oh, my god you found a
dusty book in the basement.
No, it's not
just a dusty book.
It's my old journal.
I started writing it in '65.
Oh wow, time warp.
Look it here, I get
a whole page about Gary
Pucket and the Union Gap.
Hey, you can't see it.
It's private.
Listen to this-- turn that down.
Hey, hey, hey, air raid.
End of war.
That's what you think.
I've got troops coming
in from the north.
That may be, but by the
year 1983, when I turned 30,
I vow to accomplish
the following.
Fall in love with a
warm, sexy, loving man
who doesn't care about money.
But has a ton of it.
Well, I was only 17.
Well, so continue.
OK, and two, I will
live on 100-year-old
farm with a private secretary,
cook, and also maybe a farmer.
You wanted to be a farmer?
Well, I wanted to live
on a farm and own a farm
and look at a farm, but not
do any of the actual touching
of animals.
And three, I will
be a famous writer.
You wanted to be a writer?
Yeah.
Yeah, I did.
Hey, hey, what's the matter?
Nothing.
Come on, Roseanne.
Two minutes ago you were
cleaning out the basement,
having the time of your life.
Now, you're all bummed out.
I used to write, Dan.
I used to write every day.
Yeah, I remember.
I mean this book has me.
My soul is in there.
I used to write down everything
I was ever thinking about.
So now you found it.
You could write in it some more.
When?
I mean, I got a job,
three kids, and you.
We're not going
to live forever.
I don't know, writing was
just something that really gave
me a lot of pleasure, you know.
Then I just gave it up.
You give all your time to
your family and your job.
You got a life.
I got lazy.
You got lazy.
ROSEANNE: No, I didn't get lazy.
Did get lazy.
OK, I did get lazy.
OK, don't patronize me.
I am patronizing you
because every time you clean
out a closet, I pay the price.
What are you talking about?
This cleaning jag you're on.
I've got an even number of
socks in my sock drawer,
all folded the same way in
little stacks arranged by hue.
So sue me for trying to put
some order into your drawers.
This is a birthday
thing, isn't it?
- No.
- Roseanne.
This isn't a birthday thing.
Dan.
So how are you going
to be this year, Mom?
40.
What are you talking about?
You're not turning 40.
Well maybe not this
year, but in a few years.
40 years old.
Wow.
So like you were
alive in the '50s.
That's five times
older than DJ.
I could have lived
my life three times
and not be as old as you.
[giggles]
Would you like to get started
on your second life right now?
Hey, if you're making
out of shopping list,
I need some razors, the
kind with the comfort strip.
It's not a grocery list, Dan.
I'm trying to write.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah?
That's great.
What time do you
get up this morning.
It's 5:30 AM.
The house is still
and quiet except
for an intermittent
rumble from the bedroom,
the snore of my life mate.
I don't snore.
No, Dan, this is fiction.
Well, I'm really
proud of you, babe.
You're really doing it--
[ruffling of paper]
Sorry
That's OK.
I'll just go in the living room.
No, DJ, go eat breakfast
before you start watching TV.
I want to eat in here.
Hey, DJ, your mom's
trying to write.
Go get your cereal
and we'll it in here.
Honey, you can have
the kitchen back.
Oh, great.
Morning, Dad.
Hey, Beck, be real quiet
going into the kitchen.
You're mom's trying to write.
Good morning, everyone.
- Shh, mom's trying to write.
- Write what?
Darlene.
(WHISPERING) Have you
seen my history book?
Well, did you
check in the washer?
Of course, I
checked in the washer.
How about under the sofa?
Yes, I checked under the sofa.
Well, did you look upstairs?
Yes.
Well, how come you're
always losing your stuff?
Well, answer her.
[music playing]
ROSEANNE: Well,
this better be good.
I'm sure excited.
I have here one silk scarf
made of genuine Dacron.
You guys know how I hate
surprises, especially when
I don't know what they are.
You're doing to like this one.
One, two, three, four.
(SINGING) They say
it's your birthday.
It's my birthday too.
ROSEANNE: Oh, you got
the Beetles to come over.
BECKY: There's a
step right there.
Step.
Be careful.
There's a step right there.
Step.
All right.
(ALL) Happy birthday.
Um-- my own door.
Open it.
OK.
Uh-- my own dungeon.
It's an office.
So you can write.
Oh, my won office.
Do you like it?
It's my own office.
It's just so you don't
bother us when you write.
Oh, it's just great.
It's fantastic.
Yeah, I put all these shelves
in here for all your all,
you know, the stuff you write--
Manuscripts.
Now, how did you do this
without me even knowing?
Thank you.
Happy birthday, Mom.
Here, pencils.
Oh
Yeah, and I go
you some notepads.
And I got a dictionary
and a thesaurus.
Ah, gee, this is like the
Partridge family or something.
And for the grand finale,
I'm taking the kids to the mall
for lunch and a movie.
And we got the afternoon
to yourself to write.
What?
You're all leaving?
Gone.
We'll miss you.
I'll miss you, too.
Now scram.
You know, Stephen
King started this way.
(SINGING) I'm 37.
I'm not really 40.
And I'm spending the afternoon
all alone in my basement.
[music playing]
JACKIE: Roseanne, you out here?
Hey, come to the window.
I'm in the basement.
Hi.
What are you doing down there?
You know, today's your birthday.
You're 37.
I know.
Happy Happy birthday.
Hey, look it.
Dan made me an office
so as I can write.
Looks great.
Maybe I should bring you
a cake with a file in it.
No, it's great.
Look, I got a desk and
shelves and everything.
And on top of that, he ups
and takes the kids to the mall
so as, you know,
I can concentrate.
How's it going?
You getting anything done?
No, I'm going nuts.
Well I don't want to
break your concentration.
I just came by to wish
you a happy birthday.
So I'll stop by later and
I can give you my present.
Well, why can't I open it now?
I haven't bought it yet.
[music playing]
Are you in need
of some stroking?
No, I'm-- just in need of, you
know, something to write about.
I mean, I got like a dozen
sharpen Dixon Ticonderoga
number twos and no ideas.
Well, what did you
used to write about?
My life and stuff.
But I think it was just
more interesting back then.
No.
Cut it out.
I don't know.
I-- I think I shouldn't
start big maybe.
Shouldn't start so
big like by writing.
I should start maybe
smaller by plagiarizing.
You know, Roseanne, I've
learned a lot about writing
from the police reports.
JACKIE: They've got
to be convincing.
They've got to be accurate.
They've got to be
at least two pages
long or else Judge Samuels isn't
going to take them seriously.
JACKIE: So what I've found
is the best way to start out
is by the facts.
What facts?
Fac-- uh--
well, what are the facts
in "Gone with the Wind"?
Well, I think we're talking
about literature here,
and not the movies.
- It was a book.
"Gone with the
Wind" was a book?
So you look at the facts.
What are the facts?
You got the North,
the South, the troops,
the horses, the staircase,
the birthing babies,
and a big fire.
You're kidding me.
It was a book?
Yeah.
Everything's got facts
and events and people
in the events.
And so you take the
people in the events
and then you put them in the
order that the facts happen.
And then you're done.
Well, I'll be damned if "Gone
with the Wind" wasn't a book.
[music playing]
So how'd you like
your dinner, Mom?
Oh it was really great.
And I'll like it even more
when it's all cleaned up.
Come on, Darlene.
You got to help.
Why do I have to help?
Darlene, get to work.
So when do we get to
see what you wrote today?
Ah, as soon as
the movie comes out.
No we want to read it.
Well, you can't read
it a piece at that time.
You got to wait till the
whole book is finished.
You writing the
great American novel?
Well you know, that's
always been my dream.
And with that new office--
You like that office?
That is a perfect office.
So everything's
working out OK.
You've got the time.
You've got the place.
Not a bad birthday present, huh?
Good hubby, good hubby.
I'll tell you, It's such
a great office sometimes
I can't tell you
how many times I'm
sitting down there
and just looking
at those walls in wonderment.
As long as you're
getting to write.
You should have seen
her down there today.
The pages are just pouring out.
So what are going
title of your book?
101 things to do
with the kids' heads.
You know, writing isn't easy.
That's a true.
Specially them h's.
Maybe you should stop
using your head as an eraser.
You should start using
Darlene's head as an eraser.
So weak.
Very weak.
Yeah.
David, you got to help.
Make me.
[screams]
So, when do I get to
read this masterpiece?
As soon as I write something.
I thought so.
Yeah, but you should see
what I done to them shelves
down there.
What's the matter, baby?
You didn't write anything?
It's not the office, is it?
Oh, no, honey, no,
it isn't the office.
It's me.
I get some good idea, but
as soon as I write it down,
it turns out stupid.
Roseanne, don't start
getting all down on yourself.
Yeah, you know,
pitchers don't go
down to Florida
[kids yelling] in February
and start throwing heat.
Hey, can it!
DARLENE: Sorry.
Well, I just don't
think I have it anymore.
You know, I'm sitting there.
I'm trying to
think of something.
I'm try to get an idea.
The only thing that
comes into my head
is that I got to take
either DJ or Darlene
to the dentist or something.
DARLENE: Get off of me
before I kick your head in.
DJ: So what?
I don't think I have
any room for creating.
All my compartments
or too full up.
I'm 37 years old.
I'm a mom.
That's what I am.
Hey, Darlene, get
off your brother.
Come on, DJ.
We're going up to bed.
OK, read to me.
Yeah, just ask
me to write to you.
[music playing]
All All right, buddy,
what will it be?
"The Adventures
of PJ Pamawhack."
Oh, OK.
Well, move your butt over.
You're hogging the bed.
OK.
Once there was a little
kid named PJ Pamawhack.
And his initials were very
close to this one kid I know.
Me.
Right.
And he was also in
the third grade,
like this other kid I know.
Me.
Yeah And one day
it seems PJ was
in his fort, which
was in whatever was
left of the Amazon rain forest.
And it was 8:00 in the
morning, so he'd already
fired the morning
canon, you know,
to scare off any
intruders that might
be coming in there
trying to steal
his collection of war toys.
Intruders?
Yeah, you know, the bad guys,
like Becdar, the two headed,
evil sister monster.
Oh, no.
Oh, yes, and the
cannon was fired.
And from out of the jungle
came a terrible noise.
First there was--
Rumble.
And a--
Grumble.
I don't know.
A high pitched scream.
[fake scream]
The scream of a
huge, great Big Bird.
Mom, how come PJ Pamawhack
isn't in the library?
Because it's not a book.
It's just some
stories I make up.
Well, it should be.
You think so?
Yeah.
Did I ever tell you think
you are my favorite son?
Story.
Right So this huge bird
swooped out of the jungle--
DAN: Roseanne?
Rosie?
(Whispering) Rosanne?
What are you doing up here?
It's after midnight.
What's the matter
with the office?
[music playing]